Income in your industry is not equally
distributed. 95% of all opportunities go
to the top 1 or 2% of people in any
sector. And I know this sounds unfair.
It's brutal. But once you understand why
this happens, you can actually use it to
your advantage. And I am going to show
you why this happens, why very few
entrepreneurs get all the opportunities,
and why 99% of entrepreneurs struggle to
break even. My name is Chris Donley and
over the last 15 years, I've built three
businesses that have gone north of 10
million in turnover. However, my first
company I started 15 years ago and we
helped people build websites. I worked
80our weeks and by the time I was 25, I
was making almost no profit and then we
rebranded to Verb. I became a thought
leader in the luxury space and by the
time I was 27, we made 5 million a year
with 25% profit. It happened because I
became what I call micro famousamous in
my industry in the luxury space. And
trust me, it has nothing to do with
actually being famous. It's about being
recognized by a very small number of
people as a thought leader in your
industry. And in this video, I'm going
to show you the exact framework that I
use to get there and how you can do the
same in your space. So, before we start,
you need to understand something. People
have heard of the 80/20 rule. 80% of
results come from 20% of efforts. It's
called the Parto principle and it
applies to almost everything in life and
everything in business. But here's what
nobody tells you. In the digital
economy, it is not 80/20 anymore. It's
more like 95 to five. And in some
industries, it's even more extreme than
that. When I started Verb, my digital
marketing agency, there were 10,000
agencies in the UK, all competing for
the same clients. I was 21 years old. I
looked about 16 and I had less
experience than almost every competitor
out there. And I remember sitting in a
pitch meeting thinking, why would anyone
choose me over an agency that has been
doing this for 20 years? The answer I
discovered had nothing to do with
experience or credentials. It had
everything to do with visibility and
positioning. Fundamentally, positioning
and value ad is indexed in the buyer's
mind more than simply your CV. And let
me show you what I mean with this
diagram. If you plot the share of leads
and opportunities in any market against
the people competing for them, you do
not get an even distribution. And I have
updated this based on the network
science and business research to show
you a more realistic and modernized view
of opportunity distribution. There are
only really five ways that people
discover experts and suppliers. That's
word of mouth, online research, social
media, leaderboards and rankings, and
then news and media. And that's it. And
the top 1 to 5% of people are highly
known. They get the majority of inbound
opportunities. And once they decide to
take them or turn them down, the next 5
to 10% of people get that attention and
get those opportunities. The next 20 to
30%, they get scraps. And the bottom 60%
they are almost invisible. They are
fighting over the crumbs that fall from
all of the businesses above them. And
this isn't just theory. Think about your
own industry right now. If you need a
lawyer, a designer or a marketing
expert, how do you go about finding that
person? You ask someone you trust for a
recommendation, you search Google or
ChatgBT.
You look at who is talking about the
topic and talking about it well on
social media. You check the leaderboards
and you check the rankings and even you
look at the news. And every single one
of these discovery methods favors the
people who are already visible. the
people who have already positioned
themselves at the top of the power law.
And if you have ever felt like you're
doing great work, but nobody notices
you. This explains exactly why. It's not
about your skills. It's about your
positioning and it is about your
reputation. And the moment I understood
this, everything changed in my business
and everything has changed in my life
since. So instead of trying to be the
best agency out of 10,000 agencies, I
positioned Verb as the number one luxury
digital marketing agency. We became the
most visible option in a very specific
category. And by the time I sold that
business, we had worked with Bugatti,
Aston Martin, Harrods, Sunseeker. And we
got those clients not because we were
objectively better than anyone else. We
got them because when someone thought of
luxury digital marketing, our name came
up first and we made every pitch list.
So this is exactly what I'm going to
show you next, which is what I call the
visibility hierarchy. And in every
industry, there are four levels of
visibility for people. So understanding
where you are right now and where you
need to be is the first step to changing
your financial trajectory. The
difference between a worker earning
50,000 a year and a thought leader
earning 500,000 or more is rarely about
technical skill. It is about visibility
and it is about positioning. So level
one is workers. They get paid for their
time. They do their work and they trade
their hours for money. Level two is
managers. These are people who
coordinate the workers. Level three is
leaders. They run the team, lead the
department, or maybe they own a small
business. They have some reputation, but
it's usually limited to their immediate
network. And then level four is the
thought leaders. This is where the power
law kicks in significantly in your
favor. Thought leaders have positioned
themselves as the go-to expert in a
specific space. They attract the
opportunities instead of chasing them.
Money flows to them because of their
reputation and not just their skills.
And when I was running Verb, I spent
years operating as a leader. I had a
successful agency. We were doing good
work, but I was constantly chasing new
business. I was in the room pitching,
networking, and trying to get attention.
And the shift started happening when I
started working on the five steps of
building leverage. So when you become a
thought leader, something interesting
happens. You stop competing on price.
You stop chasing clients. And
opportunities just keep finding you. And
because you are perceived as an expert,
you can charge premium rates. But how
exactly do you go about becoming a
thought leader? How do you go from
invisible to in demand? Becoming micro
famous in your industry is not about
luck or going viral. It's about
following these five steps that I've
learned over the last 15 years. There
are five steps and each one builds on
the one before it. And the first step is
positioning and reputation. So before
you do anything else, you need to be
crystal clear on what you want to be
known for. This is where most people
fail. They try to be everything to
everyone. They are a marketing
consultant or a business coach or a
digital expert. And these labels mean
very little because they're too broad.
So when I repositioned Verb from a
digital marketing agency to the digital
marketing agency that helps luxury
brands connect with high netw worth
individuals, everything changed.
Suddenly we were not competing against
10,000 agencies. We were the only option
in a very specific category. So your
positioning should be specific enough
that when someone hears it, they
immediately know whether it is relevant
to them. So here is a simple test. Can
you describe what you do in one sentence
that makes someone lean in? And if the
answer is no, your positioning needs
work. And if you're just starting out
and you feel like you don't have enough
experience to claim a niche, here is
what I want you to understand. You do
not need to be the best in the world.
You just need to be incredibly specific.
The intersection of your skills and your
interests and a real market is where
your positioning lives. The second step
is intellectual property. So once you
have your positioning locked in, you
need to package your expertise into
intellectual property. And this is your
unique take on how to solve problems in
your space. And intellectual property
isn't just for tech companies or famous
people. It's a framework or a
methodology or an approach that you can
put a name on and that you can teach.
Think about Simon Synynic for a moment.
Before he came along, people talked
about purpose and mission in incredibly
vague terms. And then he created start
with why and he introduced the golden
circle framework and these words and
that simple diagram branded it his or
James Clear the idea that small habits
compound over time is not new but he
packaged it as atomic habits and he
created the frameworks like the four
laws of behavioral change or habit
stacking and now he owns that
conversation. So whenever anyone talks
about building better habits his
frameworks are what they reference. So
here's how to create your own
intellectual property. So look at what
you already do. You have processes in
place. There are steps that you take to
do what you do and you just haven't
named them yet. So think about how you
help customers. What do you do first?
What then comes second? And there is a
pattern there and that pattern is your
intellectual property. So once you see
it, try and give it a name. Try and
create a framework around it. And if you
have five steps, you could call it five
steps of something. The name needs to be
memorable enough that someone could
explain it to a friend. And I did this
when I teach people how to do sales. I
kept coming back to the same principles.
I turned them into an acronym called
serve. And that stands for show up
consistently, educate, relate to their
needs, value over transactions, and
engage with authenticity. None of this
is revolutionary, but by packaging it
into one word, it becomes something that
people remember and something people
repeat. So the third step to becoming
micro famousamous is creating content
and understanding the content funnel. So
I really want you to visualize a funnel
and at the top you are trying to get
attention. In the middle you are
building trust and at the bottom you are
converting that trust into customers. So
at the top of the funnel you need
awareness content. This is lightweight,
easy to consume, and easy to share. Big
ideas packaged into small posts. They're
quotes. They're observables, opinions on
your industry. The goal is reach. You
want people who have never heard of you
to stop scrolling and to pay attention.
In the middle of the funnel, you need
education content. This is where most
people underinvest, and it is the most
powerful content that you can create.
This is where you teach your audience
how to solve their problems. You show
them how to go from A to B. When I
launched my business, Searchable, I
created a carousel breaking down exactly
how AI SEO actually works and how to do
it. And hundreds of people reached out
saying it helped them. And that single
piece of content built more trust than
months of awareness posts. So education
is what makes people follow you, save
your posts, and remember your name. It
proves you actually know what you're
talking about. And at the bottom of the
funnel, you need conversion content.
This is case studies, testimonials, and
proof that your product or service
delivers results. But here is the key.
Conversion content only really works if
people have already followed you.
They've already seen your awareness
content and your education content. If
someone has discovered you, consumed
your free value, learned your
frameworks, and understood how you
think, then a case study lands
perfectly. They already trust you. Now
they just need proof that you can
deliver for them. But if you just post
buy my thing to someone who has never
heard of you, it falls flat, of course.
And that is why most people fail at
selling on social media. They try to
convert people who have not been through
the funnel yet or built trust. So the
ratio I want to give you is 80% of your
content should be awareness and
education and only 20% should be
conversion. So build trust first then
ask for the sale. So the fourth step is
offer and value. Here is where the
intellectual property becomes
commercial. You need to create offers
that allow people to experience your
expertise at different levels. Think of
this more like a product ecosystem. You
might have a free resource that
introduces people to your thinking and
then you have a lowcost product like an
ebook or a template that lets you go
deeper. A mid-tier offer might be a
course or a workshop and a high ticket
service for people who want full
transformation. And this isn't just
about maximizing revenue from day one.
It's about building a ladder that takes
people from discovering you to becoming
a long-term client or a long-term
customer. The fifth step is one to many,
which means speaking, writing, and
sharing your opinions to many, many
people. And this is where most people
get stuck. They know they need to create
content, but they do not do it
consistently or they spread themselves
too thin. And here's the truth. Every
communication that you put out should
reach 50 to 250 people minimum. So if
you're still pitching onetoone or you're
networking onetoone or selling onetoone,
you have capped your time. Speaking at
events, guesting on podcasts, posting on
social media, writing articles, these
are all one to many activities. So a
single podcast appearance can equal a
year's worth of networking
conversations. When I started treating
every piece of content as a one to many
pitch, everything accelerated in my
businesses. A LinkedIn post reaches
thousands of people. A YouTube video
reaches tens of thousands. And unlike a
meeting, that content keeps working for
you forever. So, if you're thinking, I
don't have enough to say, I promise you
that you do. Start by documenting what
you are learning and start sharing what
you are learning. Share the problems
that you're solving and give opinions on
what you see in your industry. So
prolific beats perfect. The people who
publish consistently are the people who
get noticed. And that's what being micr
famous does for your career or your
business. You become the destination and
opportunities, partnerships, clients,
and deals all flow towards you because
of your visibility. So let me make this
practical. If someone in your industry
has an opportunity right now, whether
it's a job, a partnership, a client
project, or an investment, how would
they find someone to help them with